Housing Index Methodology

We have created a simple housing-area suitability index based on four inputs: Home size, Ownership, Commute, and Pre-tax household income. 

*NB. Please note that this is currently for illustrative purposes only, and is by no means a perfect model. 

Here is how each variable has been transformed to make up the index.

Home size:
First, we look at which desired home size (1 to 4+ bedrooms) has been selected. Next, we identify the municipalities with the highest proportion of total homes of the selected size.
These municipalities are then ranked the highest.
For example, if a user selects '1 bedroom', municipalities with the highest proportion of one bedrooms will rank first.

Ownership:
Based on the user's selection of either "rent" or "own", we identify the proportion of households with that ownership status for each municipality.
Municipalities with the highest proportion of the selected ownership status is then ranked highest.

Commute:
For this input, every municipality initially gets a score of 100.
Then, based on the desired commute time selected, if the median commute time of a municipality is less the commute time specified, the score remains at 100.
However, 1 point is subtracted for every minute that a municipality's median commute time is greater than the specified commute time.

Pre-tax household income:
When the user selects an income band, the average of the band's end-points is taken. Then, the median income for every municipality is scaled to create a range from 0 to 100.
The municipality with the the lowest median income is 0 and the highest is 100. From there, the selected income bracket gets a scaled value.
The absolute difference between the municipality's scaled value and selected income band is calculated to create a score. This income score is then double weighted due to its importance.

Finally, each municipality is given an aggregated score for all four components, which is scaled to give the final score provided.

The legend intervals adjust dynamically depending on the housing criteria selected, and therefore change accordingly.


